---
title:        "Interview with Saran Croos"
subtitle:     "Season 2 Episode 19"
date:         "2022-02-20"
keywords:
mp3-url:      ""
episode-type: "full" #"trailer"
explicit:     "no"
block:        "no" # no means it is published
layout: podcast
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
On today's episode, Greg and Katelyn are speaking with Saran Croos!

Saran is the Engineering and Computer Science Librarian at the University of New Brunswick (UNB), Fredericton. He holds an honours BA from the University of Windsor, an MPA from Queen’s University and an MLIS from Western University. Saran also has a Mechanical Engineering Technology diploma from Algonquin College and worked as a Computer Numerical Control Machinist before his career as a librarian. Saran was born in Sri Lanka, and his family immigrated to Canada in 1991. He grew up in Ottawa, Ontario and lived in many cities in Ontario before relocating to New Brunswick, where he resides currently. In addition to English, Saran also speaks Sinhalese and a bit of Tamil. Saran is a person who stutters, and he has been stuttering most of his life. Throughout the episode, Saran shares personal stories and experiences about growing up as a person who stutters. He talks about how his stuttering has changed over the years, and explains how he views stuttering in relation to his identity.

Music: Luca Dinu.

Production Team: Katelyn Mayo, Luca Dinu, Melanie Crane, Emily Murphy, Dr. Paul De Decker, Greg O'Grady

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/katelyn-mayo/embed/episodes/Interview-with-Saran-Croos-e1eldol/a-a7ergft" height="102px" width="400px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Theme music: Luca Dinu. Production Team: Luca Dinu, Dr. Paul De Decker, Katelyn Mayo, Greg O'Grady, Melanie Crane.
